80th Congress of the United States of
America at the first session begun and
held at the city of Washington on Friday
the third day of January 1947 an act to
promote the national security by
providing for a secretary of defense for
a national military establishment for a
department of the army a department of
the Navy and a department of the Air
Force and for the coordination of the
activities of the national military
establishment with other departments and
agencies of the government concerned
with the national security be it enacted
by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled that this
Act may be cited as the National
Security Act of 1947 declaration of
policy section 2 in enacting this
legislation it is the intent of Congress
to provide a comprehensive program for
the future security of the United States
to provide for the establishment of
integrated policies and procedures for
the department's agencies and functions
of the government relating to the
national security to provide three
military departments for the operation
and administration of the army the Navy
including Naval Aviation and the United
States Marine Corps and the Air Force
with their assigned combat and service
components to provide for their
authoritative coordination and unified
direction under civilian control but not
to merge them to provide for the
effective strategic direction of the
Armed Forces and for their operation
under unified control and for their
integration into an efficient team of
land naval and air forces title 1
coordination for national security
National Security Council section 101 a
there is hereby established a council to
be known as the National Security
Council here and after in this
section referred to as the council the
President of the United States shall
preside over meetings of the council
provided that in his absence he may
designate a member of the Council to
preside in his place the function of the
council shall be to advise the president
with respect to the integration of
domestic foreign and military policies
relating to the national security so as
to enable the military services and the
other departments and agencies of the
government to cooperate more effectively
in matters involving the national
security the council shall be composed
of the President the Secretary of State
the Secretary of Defense appointed under
Section 202 the Secretary of the army
referred to in section 205 the Secretary
of the Navy the secretary of the Air
Force appointed under Section 207 the
chairman of the National Security
Resources Board appointed under section
103 and such of the following named
officers as the president may designate
from time to time the secretaries of the
executive departments the chairman of
the munitions board appointed under
Section 213 and the chairman of the
research and development board appointed
under Section 214 but no such additional
members shall be designated until the
advice and consent of the Senate has
been given to his appointment to the
office the holding of which authorizes
his designation as a member of the
Council B in addition to performing such
other functions as the president made
erect for the purpose of more
effectively coordinating the policies
and functions of the departments and
agencies of the government relating to
the national security it shall subject
to the direction of the president be the
duty of the council one to assess and
appraise the objectives commitments and
risks of the United States in relation
to our actual and potential military
power in the interest of national
security for the purpose of making
recommendations to the president in
connection therewith and two to consider
policies on matters of common interest
to the departments and agent
seas of the government concerned with
the national security and to make
recommendations to the president in
connection therewith see the council
shall have a staff to be headed by a
civilian executive secretary who shall
be appointed by the president and who
shall receive compensation at the rate
of ten thousand dollars a year the
executive secretary subject to the
direction of the council is hereby
authorized subject to the civil service
laws and the classification act of 1923
as amended to appoint and fix the
compensation of such personnel as may be
necessary to perform such duties as may
be prescribed by the council in
connection with the performance of its
functions d the council shall from time
to time make such recommendations and
such other reports to the president as
it deems appropriate or as the president
may require Central Intelligence Agency
section 102 a there is hereby
established under the National Security
Council a Central Intelligence Agency
with a director of Central Intelligence
who shall be the head thereof the
director shall be appointed by the
president by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate
from among the commissioned officers of
the Armed Services or from among
individuals in civilian life the
director shall receive compensation at
the rate of $14,000 a year b1 if a
commissioned officer of the Armed
Services is appointed to s director than
a in the performance of his duties as
director he shall be subject to no
supervision control restriction or
prohibition military or otherwise other
than would be operative with respect to
him if he were a civilian in no way
connected with the Department of the
army the Department of the Navy the
Department of the Air Force or the Armed
Services or any component thereof and B
he shall not possess or exercise any
supervision control powers or functions
other than such as he possesses
or is authorized or directed to exercise
as director with respect to the armed
services or any component thereof the
Department of the army the Department of
the Navy or the Department of the Air
Force or any branch Bureau unit or
division thereof or with respect to any
of the personnel military or civilian of
any of the foregoing - except as
provided in paragraph 1 the appointment
to the office of director of a
commissioned officer of the Armed
Services and his acceptance of and
service in such office shall in no way
affect any Status office rank or grade
he may occupy or hold in the Armed
Services or any emolument perquisite
right privilege or benefit incident to
or arising out of any such status office
rank or grade any such commissioned
officer shall while serving in the
office of director received the military
pay and allowances active or retired as
the case may be payable to a
commissioned officer of his grade and
length of service and shall be paid from
any funds available to defray the
expenses of the agency annual
compensation at a rate equal to the
amount by which $14,000 exceeds the
amount of his annual military pay and
allowances see notwithstanding the
provisions of section 6 of the Act of
August 24 1912 37 statute 555 or the
provisions of any other law the director
of Central Intelligence may in his
discretion terminate the employment of
any officer or employee of the agency
whenever he shall deem such termination
necessary or advisable in the interests
of the United States but such
termination shall not affect the right
of such officer or employee to seek or
accept employment in any other
department or agency of the government
if declared eligible for such employment
by the United States Civil Service
Commission
d for the purpose of coordinating the
intelligence activities of the several
government departments and agencies in
the interest of national security it
shall be the duty of the agency under
the direction of the National Security
Council 1 to advise the National
Security Council in matters concerning
such intelligence activities of the
government departments and agencies as
relate to national security
2 to make recommendations to the
National Security Council for the
coordination of such intelligence
activities of the departments and
agencies of the government as relate to
the national security 3 to correlate and
evaluate intelligence relating to the
national security and provide for the
appropriate dissemination of such
intelligence within the government using
where appropriate existing agencies and
facilities provided that the agency
shall have no police subpoena law
enforcement powers or internal security
functions provided further that the
department's and other agencies of the
government shall continue to collect
evaluate correlate and disseminate
departmental intelligence and provided
further that the Director of Central
Intelligence shall be responsible for
protecting intelligence sources and
methods from unauthorized disclosure for
to perform for the benefit of the
existing intelligence agencies such
additional services of common concern as
the National Security Council determines
can be more efficiently accomplished
centrally 5 to perform such other
functions and duties related to
intelligence affecting the national
security as the National Security
Council may from time to time direct e
to the extent recommended by the
National Security Council and approved
by the president such intelligence of
the departments and agencies of the
government except as hereinafter
provided relating to the national
security shall be open to the inspection
of the director of central intelligence
and such intelligence as relates to the
national security and is possessed by
such departments and other agencies of
the government except as he ran
after provided shall be made available
to the director of Central Intelligence
for correlation evaluation and
dissemination provided however that upon
the written request of the director of
Central Intelligence the director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation
shall make available to the Director of
Central Intelligence such information
for correlation evaluation and
dissemination as may be essential to the
national security F effective when the
director first appointed under
subsection a has taken office 1 the
National Intelligence Authority 11
federal regulation 1337 1339 February
5th 1946 shall cease to exist and to the
personnel property and records of the
Central Intelligence Group are
transferred to the Central Intelligence
Agency and such group shall cease to
exist any unexpended balances of
appropriations allocations or other
funds available or authorized to be made
available for such group shall be
available and shall be authorized to be
made available in like manner for
expenditure by the agency National
Security Resources Board section 103 a
there is hereby established a National
Security Resources Board here and after
in this section referred to as the board
to be composed of the chairman of the
board and such heads or representatives
of the various executive departments and
independent agencies as may from time to
time be designated by the president to
be members of the board the chairman of
the board shall be appointed from
civilian life by the president by and
with the advice and consent of the
Senate and shall receive compensation at
the rate of $14,000 a year be the
chairman of the board subject to the
direction of the president is authorized
subject to the civil service laws and
the classification act of 1923 as
amended to appoint and fix the
compensation of such personnel as may be
necessary to assist the board in
carrying out its function
see it shall be the function of the
board to advise the president concerning
the coordination of military industrial
and civilian mobilization including one
policies concerning industrial and
civilian mobilization in order to assert
the most effective mobilization and
maximum utilization of the nation's
manpower in the event of war two
programs for the effective use in time
of war of the nation's natural and
industrial resources for military and
civilian needs for the maintenance and
stabilization of the civilian economy in
time of war and for the adjustment of
such economy to war needs and conditions
three policies for unifying in time of
war the activities of federal agencies
and departments engaged in or concerned
with production procurement distribution
or transportation of military or
civilian supplies materials and products
for the relationship between potential
supplies of and potential requirements
for manpower resources and productive
facilities in time of war five policies
for establishing adequate reserves of
strategic and critical material and for
the conservation of these reserves six
the strategic relocation of industries
services government and economic
activities the continuous operation of
which is essential to the nation's
security D in performing its functions
the board shall utilize to the maximum
extent the facilities and resources of
the departments and agencies of the
government title to the national
military establishment establishment of
the national military establishment
section 201 a there is hereby
established the national military
establishment and the secretary of
defense shall be the head thereof be the
national military establishment shall
consist of the department of the army
the
apartment of the Navy and the Department
of the Air Force together with all other
agencies created under title 2 of this
act Secretary of Defense
section 202 a there shall be a Secretary
of Defense who shall be appointed from
civilian life by the president by and
with the advice and consent of the
Senate
provided that a person who has within 10
years been on active duty as a
commissioned officer in a regular
component of the Armed Services shall
not be eligible for appointment as
Secretary of Defense the Secretary of
Defense shall be the principal assistant
to the president in all matters relating
to the national security under the
direction of the President and subject
to the provisions of this act he shall
perform the following duties one
established general policies and
programs for the national military
establishment and for all of the
departments and agencies therein to
exercise general direction Authority and
control over such departments and
agencies 3 take appropriate steps to
eliminate unnecessary duplication or
overlapping in the fields of procurement
supply transportation storage health and
research for supervise and coordinate
the preparation of the budget estimates
of the departments and agencies
comprising the national military
establishment formulate and determine
the budget estimates for submitted to
the Bureau of the budget and supervise
the budget programs of such departments
and agencies under the applicable
appropriation act provided that nothing
herein contained shall prevent the
Secretary of the army the Secretary of
the Navy or the Secretary of the Air
Force from presenting to the President
or to the director of the budget after
first so informing the Secretary of
Defense any report or recommendation
relating to his department which he may
deem necessary and provided further that
the Department of the army the
Department of the Navy and
the Department of the Air Force shall be
administered as individual executive
departments by their respective
secretaries and all powers and duties
relating to such departments not
specifically conferred upon the
Secretary of Defense by this act shall
be retained by each of their respective
secretaries be the Secretary of Defense
shall submit annual written reports to
the President and the Congress covering
expenditures work and accomplishments of
the national military establishment
together with such recommendations as he
shall deem appropriate see the Secretary
of Defense shall cause a seal of office
to be made for the national military
establishment of such design as the
president shall approve and judicial
notice shall be taken there of military
assistance to the secretary section 203
officers of the Armed Services may be
detailed to duty as assistants and
personal aides to the Secretary of
Defense but he shall not establish a
military staff civilian personnel
section 204 a the Secretary of Defense
is authorized to appoint from civilian
life not to exceed three special
assistants to advise and assist him in
the performance of his duties each such
special assistant shall receive
compensation at the rate of $10,000 a
year be the Secretary of Defense is
authorized subject to the civil service
laws and the classification act of 1923
as amended to appoint and fix the
compensation of such other civilian
personnel as may be necessary for the
performance of the functions of the
national military establishment other
than those of the department's of the
Army Navy and Air Force
Department of the army section 205 a the
department of war shall hereafter be
designated the Department of the army
and the title of the Secretary of War
shall be changed to Secretary of the
army changes shall be made in the titles
of other officers and activities of the
Department of Army as the Secretary of
the army may determine be all laws
orders regulations and other actions
relating to the department of war or to
any officer or activity whose title is
changed under this section shall insofar
as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this act be deemed to
relate to the Department of the army
within the national military
establishment or to such officer or
activity designated by his or its new
title see the term Department of the
army is used in this act shall be
construed to mean the Department of the
army at the seat of government and all
field headquarters Forces Reserve
components installations activities and
functions under the control or
supervision of the Department of the
army d the Secretary of the army shall
cause a seal of office to be made for
the Department of the army of such
design as the president may approve and
judicial notice shall be taken thereof
II in general the United States Army
within the department of the army shall
include land combat and service forces
and such aviation and water transport as
may be organic therein it shall be
organized trained and equipped primarily
for prompt and sustained combat incident
to operations on land it shall be
responsible for the preparation of land
forces necessary for the effective
prosecution of war except as otherwise
assigned and in accordance with
integrated joint mobilization plans for
the expansion of peacetime components of
the army to meet the needs of war
Department of the Navy section 206 a the
term Department of the Navy has used in
this act shall be construed to mean the
Department of the Navy at the seat of
government the headquarters United
States Marine Corps the entire operating
forces of the United States Navy
including Naval Aviation and of the
United States Marine Corps including the
reserve components of such forces all
field activities headquarters forces
bases installations activities and
functions under the control or
supervision of the Department of the
Navy and the United States Coast Guard
when operating as a part of the Navy
pursuant to law B in general the United
States Navy within the Department of the
Navy shall include naval combat and
services forces and such aviation as may
be organic therein it shall be organized
trained and equipped primarily for
prompt and sustained combat incident to
operations at sea it shall be
responsible for the preparation of naval
forces necessary for the effective
prosecution of war except as otherwise
assigned and in accordance with
integrated joint mobilization plans for
the expansion of the peacetime
components of the Navy to meet the needs
of war all naval aviation shall be
integrated with the Naval Service as
part thereof within the Department of
the Navy Naval Aviation shall consist of
combat and service and training forces
and shall include land-based
naval aviation Air Transport essential
for naval operations all air weapons and
air techniques involved in the
operations and activities of the United
States Navy and the entire remainder of
the aeronautical organization of the
United States Navy together with the
personnel necessary therefore the Navy
shall be generally responsible for naval
reconnaissance anti-submarine warfare
and protection of shipping effective
date section 310 a the first Center
of section 202 a and sections one two
307 308 309 and 310 shall take effect
immediately upon the enactment of this
act be except as provided in Subsection
a the provisions of this act shall take
effect on whichever of the following
days is the earlier the day after the
day upon which the Secretary of Defense
first appointed takes office or the 60th
day after the date of the enactment of
this act
secession to the presidency section 311
paragraph 1 of subsection D of section 1
of the Act entitled an act to provide
for the performance of the duties of the
office of president in case of the
removal resignation death or inability
both of the president and vice president
approved July 18 1947 is amended by
striking out Secretary of War and
inserting in lieu thereof Secretary of
Defense and by striking out secretary of
the Navy
signed Joseph W Martin jr. Speaker of
the House of Representatives Arthur H
Vandenberg president of the Senate Pro
temporary approved July 26th 1947 harry
s truman